# IP Protection

## Introduction

IP Protection is a feature that limits availability of a user’s original IP
address in third party contexts in Incognito mode, enhancing Incognito's
protections against cross-site tracking when users choose to browse in this
mode.

IP addresses are essential to the basic functioning of the web, notably for
routing traffic and to prevent fraud and spam. However, like third-party
cookies, they can also be used for tracking. For Chrome users who choose to
browse in Incognito mode, we wanted to provide additional control over their IP
address, without breaking essential web functionality.

To strike this balance between protection and usability, this proposal focuses
on limiting the use of IP addresses in a third-party context. To that end, this
proposal uses a list-based approach, where only domains on the masked domain
list (MDL) in a third-party context will be impacted.

As mentioned, the scope of this proposal is limited to Chrome’s Incognito mode.

## Proposal

Chrome is introducing an updated proposal to protect users’ IP addresses on
qualifying traffic when browsing in Incognito mode. This protection applies to
domains on the MDL in a third-party context, when users are signed into their
Google account in the Chrome browser before starting an Incognito session.

**Goals**

* To improve user privacy by protecting users’ IP addresses in Incognito mode.
* To minimize disruption to the normal operations of servers, including the use
  of IP addresses for anti-fraud and anti-spam use cases, until there are
  alternative mechanisms in place.

### Privacy Proxy

#### Core requirements

* Destination origins on the masked domain list don’t see the client’s original
  IP address.
* Google can’t see the origin that clients interact with.
* No single proxy can see the origins that clients interact with and the
  clients' original IP address.
* IP addresses of the proxies cannot be used for cross-site identification.
* We are [using a list-based
  approach](#identifying-domains-and-the-masked-domain-list-mdl) and only
  domains on the list in a third-party context will be impacted.

To meet these requirements, this proposal routes connections via a two-hop proxy
system that masks the user's original IP address and exposes a different masked
IP address to domains. The masked IP address retains IP-based geolocation
information down to a user’s coarse location (including country), but it can't
be used to track an individual user across websites over time.

On a technical level, the IP Protection proxy infrastructure is designed to
ensure that none of the entities operating the system can access both a user’s
original IP address and the domain their traffic is being sent to. As a result,
the entities operating the system aren't gaining access to users' traffic
information. This privacy property is achieved by leveraging a two-hop proxy
architecture and a blinded authentication scheme. Google will run the first
proxy, and external CDNs will run the second proxy. This implementation ensures
that Google's proxy can only view a user’s IP address but not the destination
domain, while the CDN proxy can only view the destination domain but not the
user’s original IP address, and that neither proxy can associate this data to
the user's account used to grant access to the feature.

For proxied third-party traffic, the DNS will be resolved at the second proxy.

Chrome is taking the following steps to prevent user identifiers, including IP
address, from being linked to origin-bound traffic:

* IP Protection will use CONNECT and CONNECT-UDP (MASQUE) to forward traffic.
  There is an end-to-end encrypted tunnel via TLS or QUIC from Chrome to the
  destination server. Separate connections will use different IP addresses from
  the proxies.

* We are using two proxies for improved privacy. A second proxy (proxyB) will be
  run by an external CDN, while Google runs the first proxy (proxyA). We then
  leverage two additional layers of HTTPS encryption, one at each proxy, to
  ensure that neither proxy can see both the client IP address and the
  destination. The two additional layers of encryption are from the QUIC proxy
  tunnels that Chrome uses to connect through each proxy server. When the
  request supports HTTPS the flow is the following: There is an encrypted QUIC
  tunnel between the client and proxyA; through it, there is another QUIC tunnel
  between the client and proxy B; through that tunnel, there is an end-to-end
  HTTPS connection between the client and the website, protected by QUIC or TLS.
  This end-to-end encryption prevents both proxies from seeing any browsing
  contents including the destination URL. The client-proxyB encryption prevents
  the proxyA from seeing the hostname of the website. The proxyB cannot see the
  IP address of the client because, from its perspective, all client traffic is
  coming from the proxyA. These nested tunnels are established using CONNECT and
  CONNECT-UDP. Both sets of proxies are run close to users to minimize latency
  to the user.

* Chrome will employ an [RSA blind signature
  scheme](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/draft-hendrickson-privacypass-public-metadata/)
  between client authentication and proxy usage to isolate client identity from
  all proxy servers. This will include open source bounds on what metadata is
  shared with proxies during this authentication process. This metadata is used
  to provide the information that is necessary for the basic operation of the
  proxy B, which includes: (i) approximate token expiration to detect expired
  tokens and, (ii) IP Geolocation to assign the appropriate egress IP. Chrome is
  committed to ensuring a user cannot be uniquely identified via their unblinded
  token or associated authentication metadata.

### IP geolocation

IP-based geolocation is used by a swath of services within proxied third-party
traffic, to comply with local laws and regulations and serve content that is
relevant to users. Use cases include content localization, local cache
assignment, and geo-targeting for ads. To support these needs but with privacy
controls in place, the proxy will assign IP addresses that represent the user’s
coarse location, including country. For more information, read the [IP
Geolocation
Explainer](https://github.com/GoogleChrome/ip-protection/blob/main/Explainer-IP-Geolocation.md).

As described in the IP Geolocation explainer, this architecture sets a user's
approximate IP Geolocation by assigning an appropriate block based on the user's
non-proxied IP address.

To accomplish this, Google will purchase IPv4 and IPv6 blocks, and defer BGP
control of the blocks to external CDNs that Google has partnered with.

### Availability of the IP Protection feature

IP Protection will be available for users in Chrome’s Incognito mode only, on
Android and Desktop platforms. Users will have the ability to disable IP
Protection. For enterprise-managed versions of Chrome, IP Protection can be
enabled, but it will be off by default.

The feature will be initially available in certain regions, and we plan to
expand the availability over time. IP Protection will launch to Chrome Stable no
sooner than July 2025.

### Identifying domains and the Masked Domain List (MDL)

IP Protection will use a list-based approach to determine which network traffic
should be proxied. Domains that are on the list will be proxied when they appear
in a third-party context (for example if the domain is embedded within another
website). If that domain is accessed in a first-party context it will receive
the original unmasked IP address. Domains that are not on the list will be
unaffected in either third- or first-party contexts. This applies equally to
Google-owned and non-Google-owned domains.

#### The Masked Domain List Criteria

We’ve developed the following criteria to identify which domains should be on
the Masked Domain List (MDL) and therefore receive masked IP addresses.

**MDL Inclusion Criteria**

The MDL will be comprised of domains that fulfill the following criteria:

**The domain is embedded as a third-party domain** and therefore in a position
to collect information about a user or their device across multiple sites that
aren’t owned by the data collector ([see below for how we plan to identify
ownership](#first-party-vs-third-party-determination)).

In addition, the domain also meets at least one of the following criteria:

* The domain serves one of the following business purposes:

  * Serving of ads
  * Targeting of ads
  * Measuring ad effectiveness
  * Collection of user data for ads, commerce or marketing related activities

  These business purposes have been selected because they indicate a
  heightened risk that an embedded domain could have a business incentive to
  collect users’ activity across sites for commercial purposes.

OR
* The domain collects user or device information in a way that appears likely
  to support re-identification of users or devices across contexts.

While the criteria should be seen as largely stable and durable, the MDL itself
is subject to ongoing evolution and change. This is driven by the refinement of
detection mechanisms and the dynamic emergence and disappearance of domains that
meet these criteria.

#### Composition of the Masked Domain List

Google has partnered with [Disconnect.me](https://Disconnect.me), a prominent
internet privacy leader who also collaborates with other web browsers. Chrome
will leverage Disconnect.me to identify domains that align with Chrome’s
established criteria. Additionally, Chrome has developed a methodology to
identify widely used JavaScript functions that provide consistent outputs from
stable and high-entropy web APIs and can therefore be used to construct high
entropy probabilistic identifiers. These functions are then detected when they
are loaded on websites in a third-party context, resulting in a list of domains
that serve scripts with these characteristics that become part of the MDL and
are therefore proxied. The detection pipeline that looks for these patterns of
API misuse considers all domains, including Google’s own domains.

#### Publication of the Masked Domain List

The MDL ([initial
version](https://github.com/GoogleChrome/ip-protection/blob/main/Masked-Domain-List.md))
will be hosted on GitHub. Periodically, domains may be added or removed based on
the fingerprinting detection system and updates to Disconnect's published list.
Chrome will also remove domains that have successfully obtained an appeal. The
published MDL will be the latest version used by Chrome.

For general inquiries about the MDL, such as those regarding domain inclusions,
exclusions or updates, please contact mdl_inquiries@disconnect.me. Please note
that response times for general inquiries may not adhere to the [timelines
listed for appeals](#policies-and-timelines).

#### Appeals

We recognize the importance of implementing an appeals process for our
list-based approach. Appeals permit companies to make a claim that their domain
on the MDL does not meet the inclusion criteria and ought to be removed, thereby
allowing that domain to continue to receive users' original IP addresses in a
third-party context in Incognito.

The appeals process is available now (as of **April 15th, 2025**) to provide
domain owners sufficient time to seek an appeal and receive a decision prior to
the launch of IP Protection in Incognito in Chrome Stable.

[Disconnect.me](https://Disconnect.me) will independently manage and operate the
appeals process for the MDL. All [Disconnect.me](https://Disconnect.me)
decisions regarding a domain's appeal are based solely on the MDL criteria
outlined in this document.

Domain owners who wish to submit an appeal should send an email to
mdl_evaluations@disconnect.me. The email should include the following
information:

* The domain name subject to the appeal.
* Company name and contact information for the domain owner.
* An explanation of why the domain does not meet the [MDL inclusion
  criteria](#the-masked-domain-list-criteria).

<span id="policies-and-timelines">Domain owners can expect the following
policies and timelines to apply to the appeals process:</span>

* Appeals must be submitted by the domain owner.
* Disconnect.me will aim to provide a decision on each appeal within **10
  business days** from the initial appeal request.
  * If Disconnect.me requires additional information from the domain owner and
    does not receive a response within **10 business days**, the appeal may be
    closed.
  * If an appeal is closed due to insufficient information, the domain owner may
    resubmit an appeal request.
* If an appeal is closed with rationale, the domain will not be eligible for
  re-evaluation for a period of **60 days** from the date of the denial.

The appeals process has been designed to align with governance principles for
Privacy Sandbox under discussion with the UK’s Competition and Markets Authority
([see CMA's 2024 Q3
report](https://www.gov.uk/cma-cases/investigation-into-googles-privacy-sandbox-browser-changes#q2q3-2024)).

#### First-party vs Third-party determination

IP Protection will apply to the domains on the MDL only when accessed in a
third-party context in Incognito, thus we must have a mechanism to determine
what is first-party and what is third-party on a contextual basis.  If the
domain for a resource on a page matches the top level domain, that will be
considered first-party context, even if the domain itself is on the MDL.
However, simply using domain structures is insufficient as a mismatch does not
inherently mean the context is third-party. Websites are often constructed using
a modular approach, where various resources are provided by different domains,
even if they are operated by the same company. While masking IP addresses across
multiple domains enhances user privacy, it offers limited privacy gain when
those domains are service domains under common ownership or, to a certain
extent, if they have an affiliation that is clearly presented to users.
Additionally, it imposes an unnecessary burden for web developers operating such
websites. As such, Privacy Sandbox needs to provide some model that reduces the
burden where reasonable to do so.

Given this is a similar problem statement to that which [Related Website
Sets](https://developers.google.com/privacy-sandbox/3pcd/related-website-sets)
(RWS) was created to address, IP Protection will build upon RWS as a means of
determining the boundaries between first- and third-party contexts such that
domains on the list that appear embedded on a website in the same Related
Website Set will be treated as first-party context.

For example, consider an analytics company that operates a domain named “B”.
This domain serves as both its top-level domain and as an embedded domain for
gathering data related to its analytics business, which has led Domain B to be
included on the MDL. Domain B may be encountered in three different situations:

1. Domain “B” loads in another top level domain (e.g. domain “A”) with which
    it does not share a RWS. The connection to B will be proxied and the user's
    IP address will not be visible to the site.
2. A user navigates to domain “B” (either by typing the domain directly into
    the browser or by navigating through a link). In this case, B will be able
    to observe the user’s original IP address, instead of the proxied IP
    address.
3. Domain “B” loads in another top level domain (e.g. domain “C”) that belongs
    to the same Related Website Set. B will continue to receive the user's
    original IP address.

<table>
  <tr>
    <td>
      <figure>
        <img src="./images/mdl-one.png"
            alt="A figure showing Site A embedding Site B">
        <figcaption>Site B is on the MDL and receives a masked IP</figcaption>
      </figure>
    </td>
    <td>
      <figure>
        <img src="./images/mdl-two.png"
             alt="A figure showing Site B as the top-level site">
        <figcaption>
          Site B loads in a 1P context, gets the user's original IP
        </figcaption>
      </figure>
    </td>
    <td>
      <figure>
        <img src="./images/mdl-three.png"
             alt="A figure showing Site C embedding Site B">
        <figcaption>
          Site C &amp; B are part of a RWS, Site B gets the original IP
        </figcaption>
      <figure>
    </td>
  </tr>
</table>

Similar to how browsers handle third-party cookie blocking, IP Protection
considers all subdomains of a [registrable
domain](https://web.dev/articles/url-parts#registrable-domain) on the MDL as
part of the same domain and will therefore also receive the same treatment.
Additionally, any subdomains under domains in the [private section of the Public
Suffix
List](https://publicsuffix.org/list/public_suffix_list.dat#:~:text=//%20%3D%3D%3DBEGIN%20PRIVATE%20DOMAINS%3D%3D%3D)
would be considered third-party to each other unless they are in the same RWS;
since such a domain would become an "eTLD", and hence each subdomain is
considered its own registrable domain. RWS will be honored for IP Protection in
Incognito independent of whether RWS is applicable to third-party cookie
blocking in Incognito.

To reduce potential disruptions to websites and services, until companies create
Related Website Sets, Chrome will temporarily employ a best effort approach to
deduce domain ownership leveraging an entity mapping created by
[Disconnect.me](https://Disconnect.me). Additionally, in cases where a company
has not previously submitted a RWS and our deduced approach contains errors, the
company has the option to submit a RWS to rectify any necessary corrections.

### Anti-Fraud and Anti-Spam Strategy and Implementation

Chrome recognizes that fighting fraud and spam is critical to keeping a healthy
and safe online ecosystem for users, publishers and advertisers, and that,
today, IP addresses play a critical role in accomplishing this, whether it is
preventing fraudulent commercial transactions or spam at scale.

Internet proxies provide users with increased anonymity online. For this same
reason, proxies are useful to potential attackers that want to conceal their
activities, such as executing a Denial-Of-Service (DOS) attack. Proxy
defensibility measures are the set of tactics that IP Protection will employ to
decrease the risk of our proxies being leveraged by potential attackers and they
include:

1. Rate-limiting access to the proxies
2. Limiting issuance of authentication tokens
3. Reporting of fraudulent behavior
4. Probabilistic Reveal Tokens

**1. Rate-limiting access to the proxies**

IP Protection will use client authentication to limit the ability of bad actors
to leverage the proxies to amplify attacks on services on the Masked Domain
List. Therefore, IP Protection will only be available to users that have been
authenticated using the Google account they're signed in with in the Chrome
browser prior to opening a new Incognito window.

It's important to note that, unlike a majority of services that use
authentication, IP Protection does it in a way that prevents any collection of
data about that user's activity tied to their account as a result of their use
of the feature. To achieve this, Chrome will employ an [RSA blind signature
scheme](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-amjad-cfrg-partially-blind-rsa-01).
This design ensures that the proxies cannot link the traffic that they're
handling to a user's account, neither the one operated by Google nor the one
operated by the CDN.

**2. Limiting issuance of authentication tokens**

Since tokens are blinded to prevent linkability back to a client, it is
theoretically possible to transfer tokens to different clients or use tokens to
appear as multiple indistinguishable clients. To limit token transfer or
harvesting, there will be a maximum quota of tokens issued per user per day and
tokens will be relatively short-lived. Additionally, proxies will limit how much
network traffic can be generated per token.

IP Protection will aim to provide most users with a sufficient number of tokens
to proxy all their traffic to domains in the MDL. In practice, this means that
users with average traffic patterns will get enough tokens to have their IP be
masked every time, but users with unusually high activity or that show other
indicators of fraud risk may experience limited access.

In the event a user has no tokens, the requests to domains in the MDL will be
routed directly, without proxying. Token quotas may change over time in response
to reported or observed patterns of fraudulent activity.

**3. Reporting of fraudulent behavior**

In addition to preventative measures, we will provide a way for websites to
report DoS or other fraudulent behavior.

Defensibility is a constant need and an ever-changing landscape as threats
evolve. We expect to remain vigilant and evolve our tactics as necessary to
limit fraud and spam through the IP proxies.

**4. Probabilistic Reveal Tokens**

As an additional measure to ensure businesses can monitor the amount of fraud on
their systems, respond to emerging fraudulent behavior, and provide feedback on
future design iterations, we will add a delayed mechanism to access a random
sample of IP addresses called **Probabilistic Reveal Tokens (PRT)**. PRTs will
be included on proxied requests in a new HTTP header added by Chrome for domains
that enable PRTs. This PRT can, after a delay, be decrypted using a key issued
by Google. The PRT will contain the non-proxy IP in a small percent of tokens
issued. This PRT will be rotated for each new first-party load within a given
incognito session. More information on PRTs can be found
[here](https://github.com/GoogleChrome/ip-protection/blob/main/prt_explainer.md).

### Ecosystem Engagement

Over the years of developing this proposal in the Privacy Sandbox, we've
actively sought and encouraged [ecosystem participation and
feedback](https://github.com/GoogleChrome/ip-protection/issues). We want to
ensure that the ecosystem has sufficient time to provide input and feedback
before implementing IP Protection in Incognito. Questions on Github have and
continue to act as a platform for collecting this feedback during the
development phase. This feedback will be considered for refining our proposal
and shaping the roadmap for IP Protection.

To report issues related to the deployment of IP Protection, including site
compatibility or bugs, please file an issue in the public
[Chromium tracker](https://issues.chromium.org/issues/new?component=1456782&template=1943293).

### IP Protection and VPNs

IP Protection and VPN services have distinct purposes and features. While a VPN
encrypts all user traffic, IP Protection selectively routes third-party traffic
through proxies to prevent online tracking. Unlike VPNs, which often allow users
to choose a virtual location, IP Protection reflects the user's actual country
and nearest metropolitan area. IP Protection is designed to complement active
VPN services, ensuring that both can function simultaneously on the same device
without interference.
